I have told you these things so you won't be upset. They will kick you out of the community, and a time will come when anyone who kills you will think they are serving God. They will do these things because they don't know the Father or me. But I have told you this so that when the time comes, you will remember that I warned you. I didn't tell you this from the beginning because I was with you. Now I am going to the one who sent me, and none of you asks me, 'Where are you going?' But because I have said these things, you are filled with sadness. However, I am telling you the truth: it is better for you that I go away. If I don't go, the Helper won't come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. When he comes, he will show the world what is wrong about sin, righteousness, and judgment. About sin, because they don't believe in me; about righteousness, because I am going to the Father and you won't see me anymore; and about judgment, because the ruler of this world has been judged. I have much more to say to you, but you can't handle it now. But when the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all truth. He won't speak on his own; he will speak only what he hears, and he will tell you what is to come. He will glorify me because he will take from what is mine and make it known to you. Everything that belongs to the Father is mine. That is why I said the Spirit will take from what is mine and make it known to you. In a little while, you won't see me anymore, and then after a little while, you will see me again. Some of his disciples said to each other, 'What does he mean by saying, "In a little while you won't see me, and then after a little while you will see me," and "because I am going to the Father"?' They kept asking, 'What does he mean by "a little while"? We don't understand what he is saying.' Jesus knew they wanted to ask him about this, so he said to them, 'Are you asking one another what I meant when I said, "In a little while you won't see me, and then after a little while you will see me"? Truly, truly, I tell you, you will weep and mourn while the world rejoices. You will grieve, but your grief will turn to joy. A woman giving birth to a child has pain because her time has come, but when her baby is born, she forgets the anguish because of her joy that a child is born into the world. So with you: Now is your time of grief, but I will see you again and you will rejoice, and no one will take away your joy. In that day you will no longer ask me anything. Truly, truly, I tell you, my Father will give you whatever you ask in my name. Until now you have not asked for anything in my name. Ask and you will receive, and your joy will be complete. Though I have been speaking figuratively, a time is coming when I will no longer use this kind of language but will tell you plainly about my Father. In that day you will ask in my name. I am not saying that I will ask the Father on your behalf. No, the Father himself loves you because you have loved me and have believed that I came from God. I came from the Father and entered the world; now I am leaving the world and going back to the Father.' Then Jesus' disciples said, 'Now you are speaking clearly and without figures of speech. Now we can see that you know all things and that you do not even need to have anyone ask you questions. This makes us believe that you came from God.' 'Do you now believe?' Jesus replied. 'A time is coming and in fact has come when you will be scattered, each to your own home. You will leave me all alone. Yet I am not alone, for my Father is with me. I have told you these things so that in me you may have peace. In this world you will have trouble. But take heart! I have overcome the world.'
