At that time, Herod the ruler heard about Jesus and said to his servants, "This is John the Baptist. He has risen from the dead, and that's why he can do these powerful things." Herod had arrested John, tied him up, and put him in prison because of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife. John had told Herod, "It's not right for you to have her as your wife." Herod wanted to kill John but was afraid of the people because they thought John was a prophet.

During Herod's birthday party, Herodias's daughter danced for the guests and pleased Herod. So he promised with an oath to give her whatever she asked. Prompted by her mother, she said, "Give me John the Baptist's head on a platter." The king was sad, but because of his promise and the guests, he ordered it to be done. He sent men to the prison to behead John, and they brought his head on a platter and gave it to the girl, who gave it to her mother.

John's disciples came, took his body, and buried it. Then they went and told Jesus. When Jesus heard this, he left in a boat to a quiet place by himself. But the crowds heard about it and followed him on foot from the towns. When Jesus saw the large crowd, he felt compassion for them and healed their sick.

As evening approached, the disciples came to him and said, "This is a remote place, and it's already getting late. Send the crowds away so they can go to the villages and buy themselves some food." Jesus replied, "They don't need to go away. You give them something to eat." They said, "We have only five loaves of bread and two fish." Jesus said, "Bring them here to me." He directed the people to sit down on the grass. Taking the five loaves and the two fish and looking up to heaven, he gave thanks and broke the loaves. Then he gave them to the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the people. They all ate and were satisfied, and the disciples picked up twelve baskets full of leftover pieces. The number of those who ate was about five thousand men, besides women and children.

Immediately, Jesus made the disciples get into the boat and go ahead of him to the other side while he dismissed the crowd. After he had sent them away, he went up on a mountainside by himself to pray. Later that night, he was there alone, and the boat was already a considerable distance from land, buffeted by the waves because the wind was against it.

Shortly before dawn, Jesus went out to them, walking on the lake. When the disciples saw him walking on the lake, they were terrified. "It's a ghost," they said, and cried out in fear. But Jesus immediately said to them: "Take courage! It is I. Don't be afraid." "Lord, if it's you," Peter replied, "tell me to come to you on the water." "Come," he said. Then Peter got down out of the boat, walked on the water, and came toward Jesus. But when he saw the wind, he was afraid and, beginning to sink, cried out, "Lord, save me!" Immediately Jesus reached out his hand and caught him. "You of little faith," he said, "why did you doubt?" And when they climbed into the boat, the wind died down. Then those who were in the boat worshiped him, saying, "Truly you are the Son of God."

When they had crossed over, they landed at Gennesaret. And when the men of that place recognized Jesus, they sent word to all the surrounding country. People brought all their sick to him and begged him to let the sick just touch the edge of his cloak, and all who touched it were healed.
