Truly, truly, I say to you, anyone who doesn't enter by the gate into the sheepfold, but climbs in another way, that person is a thief and a robber.
But the one who enters by the gate is the shepherd of the sheep.
The gatekeeper opens the gate for him, and the sheep listen to his voice.
He calls his own sheep by name and leads them out.
When he has brought out all his own, he goes ahead of them, and the sheep follow him because they recognize his voice.
They won't follow a stranger, but will run away, because they don't know the stranger's voice.
Jesus spoke this parable to them, but they didn't understand what he meant.
So Jesus said again, "Truly, truly, I tell you, I am the gate for the sheep.
All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep didn't listen to them.
I am the gate.
If anyone enters through me, they will be saved and will come in and go out and find pasture.
The thief only comes to steal, kill, and destroy.
I have come so that they may have life and have it abundantly.
I am the good shepherd.
The good shepherd gives his life for the sheep.
A hired hand, who is not the shepherd and doesn't own the sheep, sees the wolf coming, leaves the sheep, and runs away.
The wolf snatches them and scatters the flock.
The hired hand runs away because he is only hired and doesn't care about the sheep.
I am the good shepherd.
I know my sheep, and my sheep know me, just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father.
I lay down my life for the sheep.
I have other sheep that are not in this sheep pen.
I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice.
There will be one flock and one shepherd.
This is why the Father loves me, because I lay down my life so that I may take it up again.
No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord.
I have the authority to lay it down and the authority to take it up again.
I received this charge from my Father.
There was another division among the Jews because of these words.
Many of them said, "He has a demon and is mad.
Why listen to him?"
Others said, "These aren't the words of a demon-possessed person.
Can a demon open the eyes of the blind?"
Then came the Feast of Dedication at Jerusalem in winter.
Jesus was walking in the temple in Solomon's porch.
The Jews surrounded him, asking, "How long will you keep us in suspense?
If you are the Christ, tell us plainly."
Jesus replied, "I told you, but you do not believe.
The works I do in my Father's name testify of me.
But you do not believe because you are not my sheep.
My sheep hear my voice, I know them, and they follow me.
I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish.
No one will snatch them out of my hand.
My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all.
No one can snatch them from my Father's hand.
I and the Father are one."
Once again, the Jews picked up stones to stone him.
Jesus answered them, "I have shown you many good works from the Father.
For which of these do you stone me?"
The Jews answered him, "We're not stoning you for any good work but for blasphemy, because you, a mere man, claim to be God."
Jesus said, "Isn't it written in your law, 'I have said you are gods'?
If he called them 'gods' to whom the word of God came--and Scripture cannot be set aside--what about the one whom the Father set apart as his very own and sent into the world?
Why then do you accuse me of blasphemy because I said, 'I am God's Son'?
If I do not do the works of my Father, don't believe me.
But if I do them, even if you don't believe me, believe the works themselves, so you may know and understand that the Father is in me, and I in the Father."
Therefore, they wanted to seize him again, but he escaped from their grasp.
He went back across the Jordan to the place where John had been baptizing at first, and he stayed there.
Many people came to him, saying, "Though John never performed a sign, all that John said about this man was true."
And many believed in him there.
