On the third day, there was a wedding in Cana of Galilee, and Jesus' mother was there.
Jesus and his disciples were also invited to the wedding.
When the wine ran out, Jesus' mother told him, "They have no wine."
Jesus replied, "Why are you involving me, woman? My time has not yet come."
His mother told the servants, "Do whatever he tells you."
There were six stone water jars there, used for the Jewish purification rituals, each holding twenty to thirty gallons.
Jesus told the servants, "Fill the jars with water," and they filled them to the brim.
Then he said, "Now draw some out and take it to the master of the banquet."
They did so, and the master of the banquet tasted the water that had been turned into wine.
He did not know where it had come from, though the servants who had drawn the water knew.
He called the bridegroom aside and said, "Everyone brings out the choice wine first and then the cheaper wine after the guests have had too much to drink; but you have saved the best till now."
This was the first of the signs Jesus performed in Cana of Galilee, and it revealed his glory, and his disciples believed in him.
After this, he went down to Capernaum with his mother, brothers, and disciples, and they stayed there for a few days.
When it was almost time for the Jewish Passover, Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
In the temple courts, he found people selling cattle, sheep, and doves, and others sitting at tables exchanging money.
So he made a whip out of cords and drove all from the temple courts, both sheep and cattle; he scattered the coins of the money changers and overturned their tables.
To those who sold doves, he said, "Get these out of here! Stop turning my Father's house into a market!"
His disciples remembered that it is written: "Zeal for your house will consume me."
The Jews then responded to him, "What sign can you show us to prove your authority to do all this?"
Jesus answered them, "Destroy this temple, and I will raise it again in three days."
They replied, "It has taken forty-six years to build this temple, and you are going to raise it in three days?"
But the temple he had spoken of was his body.
After he was raised from the dead, his disciples recalled what he had said.
Then they believed the scripture and the words that Jesus had spoken.
While he was in Jerusalem at the Passover Festival, many people saw the signs he was performing and believed in his name.
But Jesus would not entrust himself to them, for he knew all people.
He did not need any testimony about mankind, for he knew what was in each person.
