Jesus traveled to the region of Judea and across the Jordan River.
Crowds gathered around him again, and as usual, he taught them.
Some Pharisees came to test him by asking if it was lawful for a man to divorce his wife.
Jesus asked them what Moses commanded, and they replied that Moses allowed a man to write a certificate of divorce.
Jesus explained that Moses wrote this law because of their hard hearts, but from the beginning of creation, God made them male and female.
Therefore, a man will leave his parents and be united with his wife, and the two will become one flesh.
What God has joined together, let no one separate.
Later, the disciples asked Jesus about this again, and he said that anyone who divorces his wife and marries another woman commits adultery.
The same goes for a woman who divorces her husband and marries another man.
People were bringing children to Jesus for him to bless them, but the disciples scolded them.
Jesus was upset and said, "Let the children come to me, and do not stop them, for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these.
Truly, anyone who does not receive the kingdom of God like a child will never enter it."
He took the children in his arms, placed his hands on them, and blessed them.
As Jesus was leaving, a man ran up to him and asked, "Good teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?"
Jesus replied, "Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone.
You know the commandments: Do not murder, do not commit adultery, do not steal, do not give false testimony, do not defraud, honor your father and mother."
The man said he had kept all these since he was young.
Jesus looked at him with love and said, "You lack one thing: go, sell everything you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven.
Then come, follow me."
The man went away sad because he had great wealth.
Jesus looked around and said to his disciples, "How hard it is for the rich to enter the kingdom of God!"
The disciples were amazed at his words.
Jesus said again, "Children, how hard it is to enter the kingdom of God!
It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God."
The disciples were even more amazed and asked, "Who then can be saved?"
Jesus looked at them and said, "With man this is impossible, but not with God; all things are possible with God."
Peter spoke up, "We have left everything to follow you!"
Jesus replied, "Truly I tell you, no one who has left home or family for me and the gospel will fail to receive a hundred times as much in this present age and in the age to come, eternal life.
But many who are first will be last, and the last first."
As they were on their way to Jerusalem, Jesus was leading the way, and the disciples were astonished, while those who followed were afraid.
He took the twelve aside and told them what was going to happen to him: "We are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and teachers of the law.
They will condemn him to death and hand him over to the Gentiles, who will mock him, spit on him, flog him, and kill him.
Three days later he will rise."
Then James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came to him and asked, "Teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we ask."
Jesus asked what they wanted, and they said, "Let one of us sit at your right and the other at your left in your glory."
Jesus said, "You don't know what you are asking.
Can you drink the cup I drink or be baptized with the baptism I am baptized with?"
They said they could, and Jesus told them they would indeed drink the cup and be baptized with the baptism, but to sit at his right or left was not for him to grant.
When the other ten disciples heard about this, they became indignant with James and John.
Jesus called them together and said, "You know that those who are regarded as rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their high officials exercise authority over them.
Not so with you.
Instead, whoever wants to become great among you must be your servant, and whoever wants to be first must be the slave of all.
For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many."
As they were leaving Jericho, a blind man named Bartimaeus was sitting by the roadside begging.
When he heard that Jesus of Nazareth was passing by, he began to shout, "Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!"
Many rebuked him and told him to be quiet, but he shouted all the more, "Son of David, have mercy on me!"
Jesus stopped and said, "Call him."
So they called to the blind man, "Cheer up! On your feet! He's calling you."
Throwing his cloak aside, he jumped to his feet and came to Jesus.
"What do you want me to do for you?" Jesus asked him.
The blind man said, "Rabbi, I want to see."
Jesus said, "Go, your faith has healed you."
Immediately he received his sight and followed Jesus along the road.
