Jesus went into a synagogue again, and there was a man with a withered hand.
People were watching to see if Jesus would heal him on the Sabbath so they could accuse him.
Jesus told the man to stand in the middle and asked the people if it was right to do good or harm on the Sabbath, to save a life or to kill.
They stayed silent.
Jesus was angry and sad about their stubborn hearts.
He told the man to stretch out his hand, and when he did, it was healed.
The Pharisees left and started plotting with the Herodians on how to kill Jesus.
Jesus and his disciples went to the sea, and a large crowd from Galilee, Judea, Jerusalem, Idumea, beyond the Jordan, and around Tyre and Sidon followed him because they heard about what he was doing.
Jesus told his disciples to have a small boat ready for him because of the crowd, so they wouldn't crush him.
He healed many people, and those with diseases were trying to touch him.
Whenever unclean spirits saw him, they fell down and shouted, "You are the Son of God!"
But Jesus ordered them not to make him known.
Jesus went up a mountain and called those he wanted, and they came to him.
He appointed twelve apostles to be with him and to send them out to preach and have authority to drive out demons.
He named Simon "Peter," James and John "Sons of Thunder," and included Andrew, Philip, Bartholomew, Matthew, Thomas, James son of Alphaeus, Thaddaeus, Simon the Zealot, and Judas Iscariot, who later betrayed him.
Jesus went into a house, and a crowd gathered again, making it hard for them to eat.
When his family heard about it, they went to take charge of him, saying he was out of his mind.
Teachers of the law from Jerusalem said he was possessed by Beelzebul and that he drove out demons by the prince of demons.
Jesus called them and spoke in parables, asking how Satan could drive out Satan.
He said a kingdom or house divided against itself cannot stand.
He explained that no one can enter a strong man's house and steal his possessions unless he first ties up the strong man.
Jesus said all sins and blasphemies will be forgiven, but whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will never be forgiven and is guilty of an eternal sin.
This was because they said he had an unclean spirit.
Jesus' mother and brothers arrived and stood outside, sending someone to call him.
A crowd was sitting around him, and they told him, "Your mother and brothers are outside looking for you."
Jesus replied, "Who are my mother and brothers?"
He looked at those sitting around him and said, "Here are my mother and brothers!
Whoever does God's will is my brother, sister, and mother."
