This is the family history of Jesus Christ, who was a descendant of David and Abraham.
Abraham was the father of Isaac, Isaac was the father of Jacob, and Jacob was the father of Judah and his brothers.
Judah was the father of Perez and Zerah, whose mother was Tamar.
Perez was the father of Hezron, Hezron was the father of Ram, Ram was the father of Amminadab, Amminadab was the father of Nahshon, Nahshon was the father of Salmon, Salmon was the father of Boaz, whose mother was Rahab.
Boaz was the father of Obed, whose mother was Ruth.
Obed was the father of Jesse, and Jesse was the father of King David.
David was the father of Solomon, whose mother had been Uriah's wife.
Solomon was the father of Rehoboam, Rehoboam was the father of Abijah, Abijah was the father of Asa, Asa was the father of Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat was the father of Jehoram, Jehoram was the father of Uzziah, Uzziah was the father of Jotham, Jotham was the father of Ahaz, Ahaz was the father of Hezekiah, Hezekiah was the father of Manasseh, Manasseh was the father of Amon, Amon was the father of Josiah, and Josiah was the father of Jeconiah and his brothers at the time of the exile to Babylon.
After the exile to Babylon, Jeconiah was the father of Shealtiel, Shealtiel was the father of Zerubbabel, Zerubbabel was the father of Abiud, Abiud was the father of Eliakim, Eliakim was the father of Azor, Azor was the father of Zadok, Zadok was the father of Akim, Akim was the father of Elihud, Elihud was the father of Eleazar, Eleazar was the father of Matthan, Matthan was the father of Jacob, and Jacob was the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, who gave birth to Jesus, who is called the Messiah.
So, there were fourteen generations from Abraham to David, fourteen from David to the exile to Babylon, and fourteen from the exile to the Messiah.
This is how the birth of Jesus the Messiah came about: His mother Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph, but before they came together, she was found to be pregnant through the Holy Spirit.
Because Joseph, her husband, was faithful to the law and did not want to expose her to public disgrace, he had in mind to divorce her quietly.
But after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, "Joseph son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife, because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit.
She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins."
All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had said through the prophet: "The virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, and they will call him Immanuel" (which means "God with us").
When Joseph woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord had commanded him and took Mary home as his wife.
But he did not consummate their marriage until she gave birth to a son.
And he gave him the name Jesus.
