When Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea during the time of King Herod, some wise men from the East came to Jerusalem.
They asked, "Where is the newborn king of the Jews?
We saw his star in the East and have come to worship him."
When King Herod heard this, he was troubled, and all of Jerusalem with him.
He gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people and asked them where the Christ was to be born.
They told him, "In Bethlehem of Judea, for this is what the prophet wrote: 'And you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah; for out of you will come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel.'"
Then Herod secretly called the wise men and found out from them the exact time the star had appeared.
He sent them to Bethlehem and said, "Go and search carefully for the child.
When you find him, report back to me so that I too may go and worship him."
After hearing the king, they went on their way, and the star they had seen in the East went ahead of them until it stopped over the place where the child was.
When they saw the star, they were overjoyed.
They went into the house and saw the child with Mary, his mother, and they bowed down and worshiped him.
They opened their treasures and presented him with gifts of gold, frankincense, and myrrh.
Having been warned in a dream not to return to Herod, they went back to their country by another route.
After they had left, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream and said, "Get up, take the child and his mother, and escape to Egypt.
Stay there until I tell you, for Herod is going to search for the child to kill him."
So Joseph got up, took the child and his mother during the night, and left for Egypt, where they stayed until the death of Herod.
This fulfilled what the Lord had said through the prophet: "Out of Egypt I called my son."
When Herod realized that he had been outwitted by the wise men, he was furious, and he ordered the killing of all the boys in Bethlehem and its vicinity who were two years old and under, according to the time he had learned from the wise men.
Then what was said through the prophet Jeremiah was fulfilled: "A voice is heard in Ramah, weeping and great mourning, Rachel weeping for her children and refusing to be comforted, because they are no more."
After Herod died, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt and said, "Get up, take the child and his mother, and go to the land of Israel, for those who were trying to take the child's life are dead."
So Joseph got up, took the child and his mother, and went to the land of Israel.
But when he heard that Archelaus was reigning in Judea in place of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there.
Having been warned in a dream, he withdrew to the district of Galilee, and he went and lived in a town called Nazareth.
So was fulfilled what was said through the prophets: "He will be called a Nazarene."
