Don't judge others so you won't be judged.
The way you judge others is how you will be judged, and the measure you use will be used on you.
Why do you notice the small speck in your brother's eye but ignore the big log in your own eye?
How can you say to your brother, "Let me take the speck out of your eye," when there's a log in your own eye?
You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother's eye.
Don't give what is holy to dogs, and don't throw your pearls to pigs, or they will trample them underfoot and turn to attack you.
Ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and the door will be opened to you.
Everyone who asks receives, the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks, the door will be opened.
Which of you, if your son asks for bread, will give him a stone?
Or if he asks for a fish, will give him a snake?
If you, who are not perfect, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in heaven give good things to those who ask Him!
So, in everything, do to others what you would have them do to you, for this sums up the Law and the Prophets.
Enter through the narrow gate.
For wide is the gate and broad is the road that leads to destruction, and many enter through it.
But small is the gate and narrow the road that leads to life, and only a few find it.
Watch out for false prophets.
They come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ferocious wolves.
By their fruit, you will recognize them.
Do people pick grapes from thornbushes or figs from thistles?
Likewise, every good tree bears good fruit, but a bad tree bears bad fruit.
A good tree cannot bear bad fruit, and a bad tree cannot bear good fruit.
Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.
Thus, by their fruit, you will recognize them.
Not everyone who says to me, "Lord, Lord," will enter the kingdom of heaven, but only the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven.
Many will say to me on that day, "Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and in your name drive out demons and perform many miracles?"
Then I will tell them plainly, "I never knew you. Away from me, you evildoers!"
Therefore, everyone who hears these words of mine and puts them into practice is like a wise man who built his house on the rock.
The rain came down, the streams rose, and the winds blew and beat against that house; yet it did not fall, because it had its foundation on the rock.
But everyone who hears these words of mine and does not put them into practice is like a foolish man who built his house on sand.
The rain came down, the streams rose, and the winds blew and beat against that house, and it fell with a great crash.
When Jesus had finished saying these things, the crowds were amazed at his teaching, because he taught as one who had authority, and not as their teachers of the law.
