After this, there was a Jewish festival, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. In Jerusalem, there was a pool called Bethesda in Hebrew, which had five porches. Many sick people, blind, lame, and paralyzed, were lying there. There was a man who had been sick for thirty-eight years. Jesus saw him lying there and knew he had been sick for a long time, so he asked him, "Do you want to get well?" The sick man replied, "Sir, I have no one to help me into the pool when the water is stirred. While I'm trying to get in, someone else goes down ahead of me." Jesus said to him, "Get up, pick up your mat, and walk." Immediately, the man was healed, picked up his mat, and walked. This happened on a Sabbath day.

The Jewish leaders said to the man who had been healed, "It's the Sabbath; you shouldn't be carrying your mat." But he replied, "The man who healed me told me to pick up my mat and walk." They asked him, "Who is this man who told you to pick it up and walk?" But the man who was healed didn't know who it was, because Jesus had slipped away into the crowd.

Later, Jesus found him in the temple and said, "See, you are well again. Stop sinning or something worse may happen to you." The man went away and told the Jewish leaders that it was Jesus who had made him well. Because of this, the Jewish leaders began to persecute Jesus, because he was doing these things on the Sabbath. But Jesus said to them, "My Father is always at work, and I too am working." This made the Jewish leaders even more determined to kill him, because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was also calling God his own Father, making himself equal with God.

Jesus gave them this answer: "Truly, I tell you, the Son can do nothing by himself; he can only do what he sees his Father doing, because whatever the Father does, the Son also does. For the Father loves the Son and shows him all he does. Yes, and he will show him even greater works than these, so that you will be amazed. For just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, even so the Son gives life to whom he is pleased to give it. Moreover, the Father judges no one, but has entrusted all judgment to the Son, that all may honor the Son just as they honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him.

"Truly, I tell you, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life and will not be judged but has crossed over from death to life. Truly, I tell you, a time is coming and has now come when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God and those who hear will live. For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son also to have life in himself. And he has given him authority to judge because he is the Son of Man.

"Do not be amazed at this, for a time is coming when all who are in their graves will hear his voice and come out—those who have done good will rise to live, and those who have done evil will rise to be condemned. By myself, I can do nothing; I judge only as I hear, and my judgment is just, for I seek not to please myself but him who sent me.

"If I testify about myself, my testimony is not true. There is another who testifies in my favor, and I know that his testimony about me is true. You have sent to John and he has testified to the truth. Not that I accept human testimony, but I mention it that you may be saved. John was a lamp that burned and gave light, and you chose for a time to enjoy his light.

"I have testimony weightier than that of John. For the works that the Father has given me to finish—the very works that I am doing—testify that the Father has sent me. And the Father who sent me has himself testified concerning me. You have never heard his voice nor seen his form, nor does his word dwell in you, for you do not believe the one he sent.

"You study the Scriptures diligently because you think that in them you have eternal life. These are the very Scriptures that testify about me, yet you refuse to come to me to have life. I do not accept glory from human beings, but I know you. I know that you do not have the love of God in your hearts. I have come in my Father's name, and you do not accept me; but if someone else comes in his own name, you will accept him.

"How can you believe since you accept glory from one another but do not seek the glory that comes from the only God? But do not think I will accuse you before the Father. Your accuser is Moses, on whom your hopes are set. If you believed Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote about me. But since you do not believe what he wrote, how are you going to believe what I say?"
